Add doc and improve Makefile (#18)
9wm/9wm: README.md

> ## 9wm

Reviewer: This should be a first-level heading
```suggestion
# 9wm
```

> 9wm is an X11 Window manager. It's inspired on the AT&T Plan 9 WM 8½, also known as [rio]. 

Reviewer: Minor nitpick, but I personally prefer the original phrasing of this sentence, though I'm not opposed to splitting it in two since it's a bit of a run-on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9wm is an X11 window manager. It's inspired by the Plan 9 window manager 8½, also known as [rio].
```

> It has four major features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I'm not sure I would describe all the below as features, but I think we should sidestep the issue and just have a list without a heading.

- Simple and clean user interface. It is click-to-type.
- It uses the X11 font system (which, unfortunately, means no Unicode support).
- No virtual desktops, customization, key bindings, EWMH support, or compositing.
-  It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR), which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.

It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch: many folks have done exactly this.

## Install

> Note: If you are on Arch Linux, you can use the [AUR]

Reviewer: We haven't specifically mentioned distributors in the past, and I'm not sure we should. @nealey do you have a strong opinion one way or the other on this? 
I'm not totally opposed, but if we do we should include as many possible options as we can, since we don't know what our users might be trying to run 9wm on.

> We use [make] to build, install and setup `9wm`. So, in need to install:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need `make`, an ANSI c compiler, `mkdir`, `cp`, `libX11` and `libXext` to build and install `9wm`. In order to do so, run the following command:
```

- Simple and clean user interface. It is click-to-type.
- It uses the X11 font system (which, unfortunately, means no Unicode support).
- No virtual desktops, customization, key bindings, EWMH support, or compositing.
-  It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR), which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.

9wm is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).
It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch: many folks have done exactly this.

## Install

Where do I get it?
==================
Note: If you are on Arch Linux, you can use the [AUR]

The latest version of 9wm is held at:
We use [make] to build, install and setup `9wm`. So, in need to install:

> <https://github.com/9wm/9wm>

Reviewer: Linking to where to find the latest version is valuable in case the reader has obtained their copy from another source, please restore this.

> You need to include the follow line to your `.xinitrc`:

Reviewer: Minor nitpick but I would include these instructions under the Install header, rather than usage, since these would be one-time installation instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can launch `9wm` through a display manager like `lightdm` or via `startx` directly.
To use `startx`, you'll need to include the following line at the end of your `.xinitrc`:
```

> Then you are allowed to start `9wm` calling `startx` command. Once inside, right-click anywhere other than the focused window — including in any non-focused window, to bring up a menu. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've included that, running the command `startx` will launch `9wm. After you've done so, you can right-click anywhere other than the focused window — including in any non-focused window — to bring up a menu. 
```

- **_Reshape_** resizes the focused window
- **_Move_** drags the focused window around
- **_Delete_** kills (close) the focused window
- **_Hide_** hides (iconify) the focused window
    - Beneath the first 5 items are a list of all hidden windows.

> Left-click a non-focused window (white border) to focus it. If you didn't overwrite the -active option, the new focused window should have a black border.

Reviewer: This is a great clarification of this section thank you!

Middle-click anywhere other than the focused window to run "9wm-mm". It's up to you to write an "9wm-mm" program and put it in your path somewhere, if you want to use this for something. I have mine run "google-chrome-stable --show-app-list".

## Help

> There's a man page where you can consult information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`9wm` has an extensive man page you can consult for more information:
```

```
$ man 9wm
```

## Bugs

Find a bug? Please, submit it to [issues]. If you can fix it, submit the fix as a pull request.

### Known Problems/Bugs

9wm uses ideas from Plan 9's rio, but is following a different path and is not exactly the same.

In an attempt to avoid ludicrously long window names in the menu, 9wm shortens names with colons and dashes in them. The algorithm works well for most programs I've tried, but is bound to fail with something or other, rendering a near-useless icon name.

Windows that provide their own placement information aren't handled well right now. I'm working on it.

9wm has no idea how many monitors you have, nor what their dimensions are. It also can't deal with desktop geometry changes, like plugging in an external monitor. I run "9wm restart" to make it quickly reset its internal state and notice any changes.

> 9wm doesn't have Unicode support. In particular, if you have a browser page open with non-Latin characters in the name, and you hide that window, you will get a weird name for that window's entry in the list. Doing Unicode in X11 is a horrible mess requiring, among other things, a whole new library for rendering text. I may get to this in the future, but for now, I feel like learning about Wayland is a better use of my effort.

Reviewer: It doesn't look like any of the above have actually had any content changes, just spacing? If that's correct, please revert, it adds unnecessary noise to the diff

Author: That's right. I reverted the changes :)

Lack of EWMH means some applications (especially games) will break when trying to go fullscreen.

## License

> MIT, only. See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md)

Reviewer: I don't mind this as a separate section, but I prefer the original wording:
```suggestion
`9wm` is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).
```

## Authors

> See the [CREDTIS.md](CREDITS.md) for a full list of everybody who's helped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [CREDITS.md](CREDITS.md) for a full list of everybody who's helped.
```

* 9wm is maintained by Jacob Adams <tookmund@gmail.com>
* 9wm was maintained by Neale Pickett <neale@woozle.org>

> 9wm was originally written by David Hogan <dhog@cs.su.oz.au>, a postgraduate student at the [Basser Department of Computer Science, University of Sydney](http://unauthorised.org/dhog/index.html). He die in 2003.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9wm was originally written by David Hogan <dhog@cs.su.oz.au>, a postgraduate student at the [Basser Department of Computer Science, University of Sydney](http://unauthorised.org/dhog/index.html). He passed away in 2003.
```

# 9wm

9wm is an X11 window manager. It's inspired by the Plan 9 window manager 8½, also known as [rio].

- Simple and clean user interface. It is click-to-type.
- It uses the X11 font system (which, unfortunately, means no Unicode support).
- No virtual desktops, customization, key bindings, EWMH support, or compositing.
- It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR), which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.

It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch: many folks have done exactly this.

`9wm` is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).

> # Install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install
```
Apologies I should have clarified. All these sub-headers should remain at the second level, but the title should be a first level header

The latest version of 9wm is held at: <https://github.com/9wm/9wm>

You'll need `make`, an ANSI c compiler, `mkdir`, `cp`, `libX11` and `libXext` to build and install `9wm`. 
In order to do so, run the following command:

```
root # make install
```
You can launch `9wm` through a display manager like [lightdm] or via `startx` directly.

To use `startx`, you'll need to include the following line at the end of your `.xinitrc`:

```sh
exec 9wm # ... options
```

> # Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> # 9wm

Reviewer 2: Why?

Author: That's standard Markdown [heading syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#headings). In case need to revert, I'd suggest to use `<h2>` titles after `9wm` header:

```
Heading 2
---------
```

9wm is an X11 window manager. It's inspired by the Plan 9 window manager 8½, also known as [rio].

- Simple and clean user interface. It is click-to-type.
- It uses the X11 font system (which, unfortunately, means no Unicode support).
- No virtual desktops, customization, key bindings, EWMH support, or compositing.

> - It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR), which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.

Reviewer 2: Please revert to the original text. Your bulleted list appears with no introduction of why we are listing things, you have incomplete sentences, and you have multiple items in the first item.

> It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch: many folks have done exactly this.

Reviewer 2: Please revert. Don't capriciously reflow text (unless the diff does nothing but adjust spacing): it makes the diff harder to read and provides no change in the output.

> `9wm` is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Reviewer 2: Please revert. If you want to suggest using `9wm` instead of 9wm, apply that change everywhere in the document. (But please don't suggest this, the software's name is "9wm".)

It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR),
which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.
- Simple and clean user interface. It is click-to-type.
- It uses the X11 font system (which, unfortunately, means no Unicode support).
- No virtual desktops, customization, key bindings, EWMH support, or compositing.
- It does not allocate any colors (if you disable COLOR), which will be great news if you are stuck in 1993.

It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch:
many folks have done exactly this.
It is a great place to start if you are interested in writing a window manager from scratch: many folks have done exactly this.

9wm is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).
`9wm` is distributed under [an MIT License](LICENSE.md).

## Install

Where do I get it?

> ==================

Reviewer 2: Please revert. The style of the README is that headings are complete sentences.

The latest version of 9wm is held at: <https://github.com/9wm/9wm>

> The latest version of 9wm is held at:

Reviewer 2: Please revert this reflow.

> You'll need `make`, an ANSI c compiler, `mkdir`, `cp`, `libX11` and `libXext` to build and install `9wm`. 

Reviewer 2: I'm not completely opposed to this, but if you're going to list out every dependency, then you should also list a linker, a C library, bourne shell, and everything else. What if we just list the libraries instead?

Author: > What if we just list the libraries instead?

I'm not opposed to that. I'll check out. 😀

> In order to do so, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Please remove. This line doesn't make sense: "to do so" appears to refer to needing dependencies from the previous line.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Please revert. I am not going to add any documentation that encourages people to needlessly run things as root. I'm also hesitant to spell out what to do with a makefile; if people need this level of assistance, 9wm is not a good choice.

If, however, this is some surge of interest in this window manager, I would prefer for this sort of tutorial information to appear in the wiki.

> You can launch `9wm` through a display manager like [lightdm] or via `startx` directly.

Reviewer 2: 9wm predates the concept of a display manager by at least 20 years. I feel like even mentioning this term might be sending the wrong message to people about how usable they are going to find 9wm.

Author: > 9wm predates the concept of a display manager by at least 20 years.

That's make sense. Shall I include just `startx` mention?

> To use `startx`, you'll need to include the following line at the end of your `.xinitrc`:

Reviewer 2: This sort of tutorial information should also be in a wiki.

> ```

Reviewer 2: If we think 9wm would benefit from this sort of tutorial information, let's talk about creating wiki pages.

> ## Usage

Reviewer 2: Please revert the heading change to a complete sentence.

You'll need `make`, an ANSI c compiler, `mkdir`, `cp`, `libX11` and `libXext` to build and install `9wm`. 
In order to do so, run the following command:

<https://github.com/9wm/9wm>
```
root # make install
```
You can launch `9wm` through a display manager like [lightdm] or via `startx` directly.

To use `startx`, you'll need to include the following line at the end of your `.xinitrc`:

How do I use it?
================
```sh
exec 9wm # ... options
```

The focused window has a black border.
Mouse and keyboard events go to this window.
Left click a non-focused window (white border) to focus it.
## Usage

Right-click anywhere other than the focused window,
including in any non-focused window,
to bring up a menu.
All further actions are done with the right mouse button.

> The menu has options for:

Reviewer 2: I see what you did here in the rewrite, but the original text has the advantage of explaining immediately how to focus windows, and then explaining that everything else happens with the other mouse button. I think I prefer the original wording to the proposed change. I would like to hear from @Tookmund on this one.

> - **_Hide_** hides (iconify) the focused window

Reviewer 2: I would be happier with just one font change here, but I'm not convinced even that is warranted. Perhaps the patch author can present an argument for how this is a substantive improvement :)

> Middle-click anywhere other than the focused window to run "9wm-mm". It's up to you to write an "9wm-mm" program and put it in your path somewhere, if you want to use this for something. I have mine run "google-chrome-stable --show-app-list".

Reviewer 2: Please revert this reflow.

> ## Help

Reviewer 2: Revert to original heading please.

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would prefer to see this tutorial information in the wiki.

- **_Reshape_** resizes the focused window
- **_Move_** drags the focused window around
- **_Delete_** kills (close) the focused window
- **_Hide_** hides (iconify) the focused window
    - Beneath the first 5 items are a list of all hidden windows.

Middle-click anywhere other than the focused window
to run "9wm-mm".
It's up to you to write an "9wm-mm" program and put it in your path somewhere,
if you want to use this for something.
I have mine run "google-chrome-stable --show-app-list".
Left-click a non-focused window (white border) to focus it. If you didn't overwrite the -active option, the new focused window should have a black border.

Middle-click anywhere other than the focused window to run "9wm-mm". It's up to you to write an "9wm-mm" program and put it in your path somewhere, if you want to use this for something. I have mine run "google-chrome-stable --show-app-list".

What if I find a bug?
=====================
## Help

Please submit it to [Github](https://github.com/9wm/9wm/issues).
`9wm` has an extensive man page you can consult for more information:

If you can fix it, submit the fix as a pull request.
```
$ man 9wm
```

## Bugs

Known Problems/Bugs

> ===================

Reviewer 2: Revert header change, please.

> Find a bug? Please, submit it to [issues]. If you can fix it, submit the fix as a pull request.

Reviewer 2: Please revert this reflow and punctuation change.

> ### Known Problems/Bugs

Reviewer 2: Revert, please.

Middle-click anywhere other than the focused window to run "9wm-mm". It's up to you to write an "9wm-mm" program and put it in your path somewhere, if you want to use this for something. I have mine run "google-chrome-stable --show-app-list".

> # Help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Help
```

`9wm` has an extensive man page you can consult for more information:

```
$ man 9wm
```

> # Bugs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bugs
```

Lack of EWMH means some applications (especially games) will break when 
trying to go fullscreen.

> # Authors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authors
```

> See the [CREDITS.md](CREDITS.md) for a full list of everybody who's helped.

Reviewer 2: Please revert. "See [the credits](CREDITS.md)" makes more sense than "See the [CREDITS.md](CREDITS.md)".

On a related note, your merge request should also include an edit to the credits adding yourself :)

* 9wm is maintained by Jacob Adams <tookmund@gmail.com>
* 9wm was maintained by Neale Pickett <neale@woozle.org>

> 9wm was originally written by David Hogan <dhog@cs.su.oz.au>, a postgraduate student at the [Basser Department of Computer Science, University of Sydney](http://unauthorised.org/dhog/index.html). He passed away in 2003.

Reviewer 2: dhog's homepage should not be the link opened when someone clicks on "Basser Department of Computer Science".

> [lightdm]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/LightDM

Reviewer 2: This is not lightdm's homepage.

> [rio]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rio_(windowing_system)

Reviewer 2: Rio is a package in Plan 9; the best link to it would be to its man page. I haven't looked into this recently, but I recall there was something like an official web server for serving Plan 9 web pages as HTML over HTTP.

> [AUR]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/9wm

Reviewer 2: Many distributions package 9wm, why does Arch get a special mention?

> [make]: https://www.gnu.org/software/make

Reviewer 2: FSF did not create make, and we do not require GNU make for this package. I'm not sure what a good link would be to make, probably a 30-year-old book! But since we're not linking to other build dependencies (like a C compiler or libXext), let's not bother linking where to read more about make, either.

> [issues]: https://github.com/9wm/9wm/issues

Reviewer 2: Let's please keep the link style in the README instead of this footnote link style.
